I bet you've always wanted to meet a
real-life dinosaur haven't we talking
t-rex here because now I'm good
well if you did have the chance you'd be
surprised to set an eyes on a creature
covered in feathers fur and giant fleece
that I'm getting ahead of myself how
about we kick this list of Dino facts
off with the most famous of them all
number one the t-rex wasn't the largest
dinosaur by far the humongous
Tyrannosaurus Rex that terrified us all
in the classic Dino flick Jurassic Park
was not in fact even among the 15
largest dinosaurs with a max length of
40 feet and a weight of about 10 tons it
was a pipsqueak compared to the biggest
land dinosaur the Argentinosaurus this
gargantuan a hundred footlong herbivore
made the ground shake with all its 75
tons of body weight basically if you
live on the 6th floor of a building this
Dino could peek in on you through the
window a tiny humans what's for lunch
still to be fair to the t-rex I must say
it was the largest carnivore that ever
existed
well I guess being the king of predators
is better than not being king at all
right while we're on the topic of size
number 2 dinosaurs weren't the biggest
animals ever as much as we're used to
thinking dinosaurs were the cutest
things on earth well they weren't in
fact the largest known animal in this
planet's history is out contemporary
meet the blue whale at 98 feet long it's
about the size of the mighty Argentine
Tsar's
but its weight is far greater you ready
for it
a whopping 190 tons that's as bad as
heavy is your typical one-story house by
the way blue whales are real Titans of
this world and there's never been
anything bigger than them neither in the
sea nor on the land I guess we can
consider ourselves lucky to live
alongside such amazing creatures
number three dinosaurs aren't really
extinct come again
does that mean Nessie is real I knew it
no unfortunately for mystery enthusiasts
I'm not talking about giant lizards here
but you know you actually meet dinosaurs
every single day without even realizing
it I know sounds like complete hogwash
but it's true according to scientists
from the University of Berkeley birds
aren't just distant relatives of
dinosaurs but are dinosaurs themselves
you see the classification of animals
were all used to which divides them into
families species and so on
doesn't take evolution into account the
system was actually created long before
scientists realized that organisms
evolved at all
so today most biologists prefer to use
another classification that incorporates
animals evolution over time and that
includes dinosaurs which get ready for
it evolved into modern day birds may
give me a like if you've ever fed some
dinos at your local park
[Music]
number one dinosaurs were dressed in
feathers not scales since we were kids
all the books cartoons and movies showed
dinosaurs our reptilian creatures
looking more like lizards than anything
else
recent paleontological discoveries
though proved otherwise
and not so recent ones - way back in
1923 Explorer and adventurer Roy Chapman
Andrews led an expedition to the Gobi
Desert and found the first fossilized
dinosaur eggs interestingly enough those
eggs were apparently laid by a strange
bird-like creature that soon became a
sort of star among the scientific
community as more fossils were
discovered over time paleontologists
later concluded that most dinosaurs
including the t-rex and its kin had
feathers attached to their bones this
fact was only overlooked for decades
because nobody wanted to part with the
image of giant scaly reptiles talk about
the force of habit huh
number 5 Jurassic Park just might become
a thing one day evolutionary researchers
across the world have been trying to
understand the development of dinosaurs
for years now what they did was look at
how chicken embryos grew inside their
eggs remember I told you about birds
being actual evolved dinosaurs yeah
that's the thing
and in 2016 the team of scientists from
the University of Chile tweaked a couple
of jeans and some embryos to give them
dinosaur legs and they actually
succeeded then not yet hatched chicks
grew with lower limbs resembling those
of ancient lizards apart from purely
scientific theory show that birds could
indeed one day be turning to real dinos
of course apart full of dinosaurs is
still probably decades away but the
potential is there I just hope
scientists watch the movies before they
make any decisions on the matter the
idea didn't work out too well even in
the fictional world
number six the biggest herbivores had
equally large diets as you know some
plant eating dinosaur in fact growing as
huge as possible was their way of
protecting themselves from predators now
let's imagine say a Diplodocus how much
food do you think it it'd take to fill
the belly of a 110 footlong creature
weighing in at about 15 tons well the
short answer is a whole lot leaves in
plants by the busload in the era of
dinosaurs when it was warm and tropical
almost everywhere it was totally
possible for these Giants to find so
much food of course but anyone just
pictures such a creature walking into
your yard and stripping every single
tree of its leaves and still being
hungry after that number seven there
were chicken sized dinosaurs when you
hear the word dinosaur you probably
imagine a creature that's at least the
size of a large dog but the first thing
that comes to mind is most likely a big
Triceratops or something well dinos
actually came in all shapes and sizes
and there were really tiny ones the
smallest known dinosaur to this day is
called Compsognathus and it was just
about the size of a chicken but
scientists are even sure there were even
smaller species it's just that their
bones haven't been found yet large
fossils are obviously easier to discover
so it should come as no surprise that we
mostly know about the bigger reptiles
number eight dinosaurs had fleas the
size of roaches and now I'm feeling
itchy all of a sudden look dr. George
pointer jr. from Oregon State University
describes the prehistoric pest is not
exactly fleets because they couldn't
jump as high as the modern-day monster
but still a creature that was almost a
full inch in length and could bite
through thick Dino skin does give you
the heebie-jeebies as Professor pointer
puts it we can be thankful our modern
fleas aren't nearly as big I couldn't
agree more
[Music]
number nine carnivorous dinosaurs had
pretty large brains there's another one
of those tidbits everybody knows about
dinos
they had itty bitty brains well that
might be the case for a lot of them
especially when you compare their brain
and body size for instance one of the
biggest dinosaur species and the
Stegosaurus and a brain the size of a
lime however this discrepancy only
concerned herbivores or plant-eaters
carnivorous dinosaurs or meat eaters had
a much larger brain getting back to the
t-rex that monster had a particularly
big brain size skull
so all those images showing this
predator the brain the size of a walnut
are simply not accurate
scientists believe that predators need
bigger brains because they had to hunt
their prey at high speeds a bigger brain
meant a faster reaction time and that's
exactly what they needed number 10
dinosaurs shed their skin you certainly
know that snakes and lizards shed their
skin as they grow well dinosaurs seem to
have done the same the 2018 study
published in the journal Nature
communications show that fossilized Dino
dandruff could be proof that the ancient
lizards also shed their skins but
there's something even more fascinating
about this discovery like I said earlier
dinosaurs had feathers not scales so
this prehistoric dandruff finding meant
they didn't just lose their entire skin
in one piece
instead they shook off fragments of it
from in between their feathers I don't
know about you but I can't get the image
of a dinosaur with dandruff out of my
brain now too bad they didn't have
shampoo back then
number eleven some dinosaurs had fur
while you're still probably trying to
grasp the idea of feathered dinos
here's some more food for thought in the
cooler regions two source had fur to
protect them from the call in a 2018
study paleontologists from the
University of Bristol suggested that
some two source might have had several
types of body covering at the same time
they had feathers on their head and
wings while their whole body was covered
in soft fuzzy fur scientists believe
both are important for heat regulation
and flight control now
I wouldn't dare call these flying
creatures lizards anymore would you hey
if you know any other surprising facts
about dinosaurs leave them down in the
comments and if you enjoyed this video
give it a big thumbs up share it with
your friends and hit that subscribe
button to stay on the bright side of
life